# Maze Generator and Solver

## Maze Generator

A maze can be generated with an extremely high degree of customizability. Weights for *24 types of wall/junctions* can be chosen. The maze is generated by removing edges from a grid (whose cells are intially completely disconnected) until all cells are fully connected. If we were to think of the cells as nodes of a graph, the generated maze forms a minimum-spanning tree.

The algorithm randomly selects an edge to remove based on the weights. The weights must be at least 1. The type of wall formed by an edge and its surrounding edges is defined as follow:

In the diagram below, `~` represents our edge of interest. The horizontal and vertical lines represent the surrounding edges. The cells are the space between these edges. In the diagram below, there are 6 cells and 7 edges.
```
     0   3
     |   |
 1 -   ~   - 4
     |   |
     2   5
```
A number is assigned to each of the neighboring edges. Each wall type is given a name, e.g. `type_101x001`, `type_001x100`, etc. The 6 digits in the back of the name indicate the presence of each neighboring edge. The numbers `0` to `5` in the diagram above indicate the position of such digits: `type_[edge 0][edge 1][edge 2]x[edge 3][edge 4][edge 5]`.

For example, the wall type `type_101x001` indicates that it has edges at positions `0`, `1`, and `5`.
```
|
  ~
|   |
```

THe wall type `type_001x100`, on the other hand, has edges at positions `2` and `3`.
```
    |
  ~
|
```

Any edge of interest (vertical or horizontal) whose neighboring edges are merely mirror or rotated images of these types are considered to be of the same type. For example, `type_100x101` would be considered to be the wall type as `type_101x001`.
```
|                         |   |
  ~    <== same type ==>    ~
|   |                         |
```
## Usage

To create a maze, simply initialize a `WallWeights` struct. Here, you indicate what the weight for each type of wall should be. You can then call `Maze::new`, passing it the width and height of the maze, and the weights. For example:

```rust
use maze::maze::{Maze, WallWeights};
let config = WallWeights {
    type_111x111: 1,
    type_111x011: 2,
    type_111x101: 3,
    type_111x100: 4,
    type_111x010: 5,
    type_111x000: 6,
    type_101x101: 7,
    type_101x011: 8,
    type_101x010: 9,
    type_101x001: 10,
    type_101x000: 11,
    type_011x011: 12,
    type_011x110: 13,
    type_011x010: 14,
    type_011x001: 15,
    type_011x100: 16,
    type_011x000: 17,
    type_010x010: 18,
    type_010x100: 19,
    type_010x000: 20,
    type_001x001: 21,
    type_001x100: 22,
    type_001x000: 23,
    type_000x000: 24,
};
let maze = Maze::build(20, 20, config).unwrap();
```
